 CITY OF BUELLTON 
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING MINUTES January 5, 2023 – 6:00 p.m. City Council Chambers, 140 West Highway 246  Buellton, California 
CALL TO ORDER   
Chair Hammel called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
Vice Chair Mercado ledthe Pledge of Allegiance  
ROLL CALL  
Present:  Commissioners Shannon Reese (via Zoom), Laura Romano DeFazio (via Zoom), Marcilo Sarquilla, Vice Chair Art Mercado, and Chair Patty Hammel  
Staff:  City Manager Scott Wolfe, Planning Director Andrea Keefer, Public Works Director Rose Hess and Assistant Planner Cara Miralles  


REORDERING OF AGENDA 
None 
ELECTION OF OFFICERS 

1. Election of Chair and Vice Chair 
Motion by Vice Chair Mercado and seconded by Commissioner Sarquilla to nominate Patty Hammel to serve as Planning Commission Chairman for calendar year 2023.  
Motion passed with a 5-0 roll call vote. Motion by Chair Hammel and seconded by Commissioner Sarquilla to nominate Art Mercado to serve as Planning Commission Vice Chair for calendar year 2023. 
Motion passed with a 5-0 roll call vote. The election of officers becomes effective at the next Planning Commission meeting. 
2. Appointments to Green Team Committee 
The Planning Commission unanimously appointed the following Commissioners to the Green Team for 2023: 
. 
Laura Romano DeFazio 

. 
Shannon Reese 




PRESENTATIONS 
None 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES 
3. Minutes of the regular Planning Commission meeting of December 1, 2022 MOTION: Vice Chair Mercado moved and Commissioner Sarquilla seconded the motion to approve the Minutes of December 1, 2022. 

VOTE: 
Motion passed with a 3-0 voice vote with Commissioner Romano DeFazio and Commissioner Reese abstaining due to their absence from the meeting.  

PUBLIC COMMENTS 
None 
CONSENT CALENDAR 
None 
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
None 
NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
None 

OTHER BUSINESS 
4. Resolution No. 22-13 relating to the Conditional Use Permit and Sign Exemption for A new drive-through restaurant (In-N-Out) located at 515 McMurray Road, Assessor’s Parcel Number 137-170-046 
Consider adoption of one of the following resolutions: 
Resolution No. 22-13 - “A Resolution of the Planning Commission of the City of Buellton, California, Approving a Conditional Use Permit (21-CUP-02) and Sign Exemption (22-EXP-01) for a New Drive-Through Restaurant Located at 515 McMurray Road, Assessor’s Parcel Number 137-170-046, and Making Findings in Support Thereof”, or 
Resolution No. 22-13 - “A Resolution of the Planning Commission of the City of Buellton, California, Denying a Conditional Use Permit (21-CUP-02) and Sign Exemption (22-EXP-01) for a New Drive-Through Restaurant Located at 515 McMurray Road, Assessor’s Parcel Number 137-170-046, and Making Findings in Support Thereof”, or 
Resolution No. 22-13 - “A Resolution of the Planning Commission of the City of Buellton, California, Recommending City Council Approval of a Conditional Use Permit (21-CUP-02) and Sign Exemption (22-EXP-01) for a New Drive-Through Restaurant Located at 515 McMurray Road, Assessor’s Parcel Number 137-170­046, and Making Findings in Support Thereof” 


SPEAKERS/DISCUSSION: 
Planning Director Keefer informed Commissioners Romano DeFazio and Reese that although they were not in attendance for the Public Hearing on November 17, 2022, per the City Attorney, they may participate tonight as long as they have reviewed all materials from that hearing including videos, staff report, minutes, comments and  the packet for tonight’s meeting.  Both Commissioner Romano DeFazio and Commissioner Reese stated that they have read the materials and are ready to participate. 
Scott Wolfe, City Manager, addressed the Commission stating that he and Planning Director Keefer and had met with representatives fromthe Chumash Employment Resource Center and the Marriott, and was informed of a dispute between the Applicant, the Chumash, and Marriott involving a reciprocal parking and access easement. City Manager Wolfe recommended that the Planning Commission avoid intervening in this dispute, as the City is not a party to the easement.    
City Manager Wolfe also informed the Commission that Chumash Representatives made Staff aware of a request for consultation on the project that was sent to staff on April 13, 2022, and stated the request was made in response to an offer of consultation made to the Tribe by the City as part of its obligations under AB 52, and that the request was not received by the Planning Director, the case planner, or himself until this afternoon as resubmitted by the Chumash. City Manager Wolfe stated that the City Attorney’s opinion on the matter is that the City may not approve the project until the AB 52 consultation requested by the Tribe has been completed. City Manager Wolfe also stated that the Applicant disagrees with the Attorney’s opinion and recommended the Applicant’s testimony be taken into account before Commission makes a determination.  
The following actions were suggested by City Manager Wolfe for the Commission to take; the first to acknowledge the inability to approve the project this meeting and 
continue the matter to a date uncertain, until such time as consultation is completed, which Staff anticipates would take between 2-3 months; the second, to hear the Staff and Applicant presentations, take testimony fromthe public, and then continue the matter to a date uncertain, until such time as consultation is completed; or to take one of the other actions as presented in the meeting packet. 
City Manager Wolfe stated that the Applicant has concerns with conditions of approval and the continuance for consultation purposed would allow time for concerns to be worked out with Staff as well as additional time for the Applicant, Marriott, and the Chumash to potentially work out the dispute on the easement. Vice Chair Mercado asked if the Applicant and the Chumash were not able to come to an agreement, would the Commission be bound to the three resolutions as stated or would the resolutions be revised as a result of an agreement between the Applicant and the Chumash.  
City Manager Wolfe responded that the Commission can take whatever action it deems appropriate, but that there is potential risk that if the Commission imposes a condition that impedes upon the property rights of any party that there could be a legal challenge to that imposition; being as it is such that whatever condition the Commission proposes on the easement, a hindrance of property rights would exist and stated there is no safe path to take in terms of a legal challenge.       
Commissioner Romano DeFazio asked whether the tribal consultation would need to take place regardless of any decision made by the Commission at the meeting, and also asked about the Applicant having disagreement with the findings of the City Attorney in regard to the conditions.  
City Manager Wolfe responded that a decision that could take place without the consultation needing to take place would be one of denial, but that any decision for approval or recommendation for approval would require the tribal consultation be first completed. Wolfe responded that the Applicant has disagreed with the conditions and the AB 52 consultation process, and recommended that the Commission hear the Applicants position before making a decision. 
Commissioner Reese asked what the basis was for the consultation request (i.e. tribal resources).  
City Manager Wolfe responded that under AB 52, before any environmental review under CEQA is completed, the City is required to offer the Tribe the opportunity to consult with the City, and the Tribe can indicate they desire consultation without needing any justification for the request.  
Marc Levun, Applicant, provided a presentation in which he discussed the meeting minutes of the November 17th, 2022 Planning Commission meeting, stating that the Commission at that meeting directed Staff to bring back a Resolution for approval, and disagreed with Staff bringing multiple resolutions at the January 5th hearing. In regard to the AB 52 consultation request, Mr. Levun stated that his understanding was that if a third party such as the Chumash had an issue with the project processing, they could file for an appeal. He also stated that it is not the case that a new approval for the project is required. He discussed the concerns with the conditions of approval, which was regarding four conditions related to traffic impacts and improvements. 
City Manager Wolfe addressed the Applicant and Commission, responding that before the Applicant presents the rest of their testimony before the Commission had decided on an action to take whether or not to hear testimony on the project, the desire was to give the Applicant an opportunity to speak on their position in regard to the AB 52 matter.  
Commissioner Romano DeFazio spoke, addressing the Applicant, and stated that Mr. Levun had pushed the Commission at the last public hearing to try and get a vote and not vote for a 30-40 day extension and stated she felt it was disingenuous on his part to state that the meeting minutes were wrong, and stating that the meeting was confusing. Her understanding was that if findings were to be made that were acceptable based on all the contingences and conditions, then the project could be approved, but that the project is not currently approved as is. 
Planning Director Keefer confirmed Commissioner Romano DeFazio’s statement that the project has not been approved, and that the Commission, taking into consideration what City Manager Wolfe previously stated, may still hear the staff presentation and discuss the findings and conditions, if so desired. 
The Commission discussed the options presented and elected to continue the hearing to a date uncertain without hearing the rest of the Applicants presentation.    
Marc Levin,Applicant, stated that a 2-3 month delay at this point in the process is egregious and that by adding a condition that Staff would continue  to work on the AB 52 consultation would satisfy the legal requirement. 
City Manager Wolfe stated that it would not satisfy the legal requirement because AB 52 is very specific and requires the consultation be completed before a CEQA determination can be made. 
Sam Cohen, Government Affairs and Legal Officer for the Santa Ynez Band of Chumash Indians, addressed the Commission stating they will try and get the consultation completed within a 2-3month time period.

 MOTION: 
Chair Hammel moved and Vice Chair Mercado seconded the motion to continue the hearing to a date uncertain. 
VOTE: 
Motion passed with a 5-0 roll call vote. 
5. Project Status Update 
Planning Director Keefer gave an update on the status of current projects to the 
Commission. 


WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS 
None 

PLANNING COMMISSIONER COMMENTS 
Chair Hammel welcomed the two new Commissioners, Laura Romano DeFazio and Shannon Reese mentioning that the Planning Commissioners Academy iscoming up and encouraged all Commissioners to attend.  She went on to state that January 16-31st is Santa Ynez Valley Restaurant Week showcasinglocal restaurants. 

PLANNING DIRECTOR REPORT 
Planning Director Keefer wished the Commission a Happy New Year. 

ADJOURNMENT 
Chair Hammel adjourned the meeting at 6:57 p.m. The next regular meeting of the Planning Commission will be held on Thursday, January 19, 2023 at 6:00 p.m. 
Chair Patty Hammel ATTEST: 
Clare Barcelona, Planning Commission Secretary 
An audio CD of this Planning Commission Meeting is available upon request. A video of this meeting can be seen on YouTube at: 
https://cityofbuellton.com/government/cityTV.php?vid=22l81d2QTOA 


