September 10, 2024 
 
Irma Tucker 
Planning Dept. 
City of Solvang 
107 West Highway 246 
Buellton, CA 93427 
 
RE: 376 Avenue of Flags – Conceptual Plan 
Existing Setting  
The subject project site is located to the northeast of the intersection of Highway 246 and Avenue of Flags. The parcel is addressed as 376 Avenue of Flags and identified as APNs 137-180-050, 055. The parcel is bounded by Highway 246 to the south, Avenue of Flags to the west, a motel to the north, and Zaca Creek to the east. A small portion of the property is located on the east side of Zaca Creek and is only accessible from Highway 246 via an access easement on 51 E Highway 246. The site has a number of easements majority of which are utility related. 
The site slopes from west to east toward Zaca Creek with the greatest elevation difference being along the Highway 246 frontage with approximately 11.5 feet. The elevation difference along the northerly property line is 4 feet. The Avenue of Flags frontage falls from south to north with approximately 4 feet of fall.  
Zaca Creek is channelized within a box culvert along majority of the easterly property line except where the property crosses the creek where it is open. Majority of the site is located within a floodplain with the exception of a portion along Avenue of Flags. The flood elevation ranges from approximately 356’ to the south to 357.5’ to the north. 
With the exception of this section of Zaca Creek, the site is developed almost entirely with buildings or asphalt/concrete pavement. The site has the Pea Soup Andersen's restaurant that is closed. 
 
 
Site Survey 

 

Draft Flood Map  
Project Proposal 
The existing site improvements outside the top of bank and potential aquatic resources are proposed to be removed including the Pea Soup Andersen’s restaurant. Telecom easements 6, 20 and 21 as shown on the survey are proposed to be quit claimed are relocated as needed. Easement 23 in benefit of the City is proposed to be quit claimed and new easement recorded within the proposed drive aisle. 
The project is proposed to be redeveloped with a mixed use building that includes commercial at the ground floor along the street frontages and residential on the upper floor. 125 for sale condominium residential units are proposed that includes a mix of one bedroom and one bedroom plus den units. Commercial uses include a 4,595 square foot restaurant (Pea Soup), 6,800 square foot office and 5,734 square foot gym. The restaurant and office are located at the intersection of Highway 246 and Avenue of Flags where a large plaza is proposed. The gym is located at the north end of the building along Avenue of Flags. The building is oriented around a large central courtyard broken up into two spaces. Residential uses are located at the ground floor around the courtyard. At this time, it is envisioned that one of the courtyard spaces will have a pool and the other will have a mix of passive recreation amenities such as flex lawn, bbq station, fire pits, etc. 
 

Ground Floor 
  
The ground level will be at the Avenue of Flags elevation, which due to the grade change will cause the south end to be slightly below street grade and north end slightly above street grade. The ground floor will be above the flood elevation. Below the ground level is a partially buried parking basement level, which due to the grade difference on the site, will be approximately at the natural grade of the parcels southeasterly corner along Highway 246. The project parks the minimum required by the zoning code, which is 223 with the exception that the residential guest space is shared with the commercial parking spaces as the commercial uses and residential guest spaces have different peak use times. The site also includes a single double loaded surface parking aisle that wraps around the building with access to Highway 246 at the southeast corner and connects to Avenue of Flags at the northwest corner. A drive aisle stub is provided to the parcel to the north where the City easement will be relocated. The Zaca Creek trail is also provided along the easterly property line. 
 

Basement Level 
The second and third levels are identical with residential units only. The fourth floor is the same as the second and third floor with the exception that there is a rooftop deck along the highway 246 frontage. The building includes two elevators. A centrally located elevator is provided near the courtyard separation and is central to all residential units. The other elevator is located at the southeast corner of the building which is also the service elevator located adjacent to the loading zone. 
 

Second and Third Floor 
 

Forth Floor 
Due to the slope of the parcel and floodplain, the applicant anticipates requesting a Development Plan modification on the height, even from the DOR 50’ height. The ground floor finished floor elevation at this time is anticipated to be around 361.00’. The building height to the top of the roof will be approximately 48’-3” with the height to the parapet being 52’-3”. The average natural grade at the building is 358.50’, which would add 2’-6” to the building height as measured by code. The height is subject to change, but this is how the plan is currently envisioned. 
Section 

The building will be designed in an art deco architectural vernacular consistent with the Avenue of Flags Specific Plan. The elevations will be articulated with various forms in approximately 20’ and 30’ sections consistent with the Specific Plan. The restaurant will be designed in a streamlined art deco diner vernacular to complement the architecture proposed across the street and to stand out. The form also is trying to play off the historic origins of Pea Soup Andersen’s as Andersen’s Electric Café. The remainder of the building is more of a classical art deco style with elements of art moderne. 
  


  
Required Permits 
The proposed project will apply for a Final Development Plan after obtaining feedback through the conceptual review process. As mentioned before, the project will request to be part of the DOR program in the specific plan and will likely ask for a height modification as part of the Development Plan. A one lot parcel map for condominium purposes will also be processed with the application to create airspace condos. 
Please reach out if you have any concerns or questions. 
 
ON Design, LLC  
 

Lonnie Roy       
Project Planner 
Email: lroy@architects-ca.com 
Phone : (805) 896-7896 

