July 18, 2023 
 
 
TO:          Andrea Keefer and Buellton Planning Commission 
FROM:   WE Watch, Save Our Stars Committee, Nancy Emerson, Chairperson 
RE:     ARCO Project, Conceptual Plans – Lighting 
 
It was difficult to find the lighting information in the ARCO Project plans because it was scattered throughout the document, rather than being on one page. Also, there was no manufacturer information with the lighting fixture photos so one could not research them.   Here are my comments: 
 
The building is evidently 24 feet tall.  I could find no figure for the height of the canopy and the width of the apron around it.  Some watts information was provided (measure of energy consumption) but lumens should have been used (measure of light output).   A schematic for light output showed slight leakage of light off the site. 
 
Lighting information was found on 6 different pages of the ARCO conceptual plans.   The page devoted to lighting was the final unnumbered one in the plans packet.  Numbers with # in front of them were numbers found on the drawings. 
CUP refers to document page numbers. 
 
From the final page we learned about 3 different lighting fixtures and total number of each fixture.  It did not include a photo of the sconces on the building or a bollard fixture mentioned elsewhere. 
 
CRUS or A had 18 fixtures.  Since the sconces were the most used fixture, I made the assumption that this was the sconce even though it was not pictured except as a very small drawing on the building elsewhere in the packet.  In addition, there were 4 sconces pictured on the exterior ends of the pillars.  #4 on the plans may be this fixture.   
 
SLM or B had 5 LED small bulb fixtures and #-wise I assumed these were the fixtures in the following locations, which it indicated elsewhere had 16’ poles.  
That is more than the maximum height needed for parking lots and should be questioned.  A photo of the light fixture on the pole is needed and a total height.  The following information was on CUP-1( probably all #13 on plans): 
 
1. Yard light near trash enclosure in landscaping – on Central. 

2. Located on rear corner of building in landscaping – on Central. 

3. Front corner of building in landscaping – on Central 

4. Front corner of building in landscaping – On Ave. of the Flags 

5. North of canopy in landscaping – on Ave. of the Flags 


 
XWM or C, had 4 fixtures, which would be the fixtures in the canopy over the gasoline pumps.   Please double check the plans for number of fixtures, which may be 6 or more.  This was essentially a flat lens fixture.  It was surrounded by the canopy apron which had a blue LED line of light around its outside.  I could not find a figure for the total height of the canopy and the height of the apron.  This is important because both overall height and height of sides will determine how much light may trespass into windows in neighboring residential areas and motel  The apron needs to drop down enough to protect windows below the height of the apron from light trespass.( CUP 4, 4.1, 5 and 5.1). The total lumens of those fixtures needs to be considered, also, and lumens kept as low as possible. 
 
In addition, there was at least one, #5 fixture on the trash enclosure and there were 3 more items on the canopy pillars that could be lighting fixtures. (CUP-6). 
 
Finally, there was the monument sign, which was described as being lit internally. (CUP- 7).  There should not be problems with this lighting if lumens are controlled. 
 
*.One of the existing outdoor lighting problems for Buellton is service stations with non-conforming canopy light fixtures, which spew light everywhere, including up into the sky.  As service stations have used LED replacement bulbs, the lighting, which was already overlighting, has become even worse.   In addition to light pollution, the contrast for drivers coming in from the dark roads and the freeway and returning to them makes it difficult for their eyes to adjust to the changing lighting conditions – a potentially dangerous problem especially for older eyes. 
 
 

