BUE 17 Specific Plan
Planning Projects
On June 21, 2022, an application was filed by SBID, LLC, property owner, with the Planning Department for the proposed BUE 17 Specific Plan. The project site is located at the southern end of Industrial Way, on the approximately 17.22 acre parcel. This proposal is separate from the existing entitlements on the property for a mixed use project that was approved in 2018. This project would include a Specific Plan for a mixed use development project consisting of 48 two-bedroom condos, 36 micro studio apartments, 14 one-bedroom apartments, 18 live/work units, and conditioned storage and R & D space. Buellton Municipal Code sets forth requirements for the processing of Specific Plans.
On July 7, 2022, Planning Commission and City Council held a joint meeting to determine the scope of the documents necessary to implement a Specific Plan for this project. The resolution adopted by the City Council finalizing this desired scope of information is included in the documents at the bottom of this page.
As of December 1, 2022, the project proponents have not submitted a draft Specific Plan document. All plans on this page are preliminary and subject to change as the project evolves. Please sign up for email updates to get notified when changes have been made to submittal materials, when requests for public input are made, and when meetings or hearings are scheduled. Important Dates
● November 17, 2022 The Hub project time extension approved by Planning Commission The previously entitled Hub project was granted a time extension by the Planning Commission on November 17, 2022. This one-year extension allows the entitlements for the Hub project to remain valid while grading and building permit plans are processed. This project will expire at the end of the extension period unless construction on the project begins (in which case, the project will be vested), or the approval of the subsequently requested Specific Plan takes place (in which case, the project will expire immediately in favor of the newly approved project).
Supporting Documents
● Project Site Vicinity Map
● Specific Plan Draft Outline
● July 7 2022 PC CC Packet
● Resolution Of SP Scope