Buellton Pre-Designed ADU Plans
Planning Projects
Sometimes called granny flats or in-law units, Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) are secondary housing added onto an existing residential property. They can be a great way to provide an older relative privacy and independence while still enabling them to live with you or as a way to maximize your land’s value by adding a long-term rental unit.
In an effort to streamline the ADU building process, the City has developed three Pre-Designed ADU Plans for use within Buellton. These construction drawings are free for homeowners and builders to use to permit and construct the ADUs in the city. Using these plans will significantly reduce time and costs included in hiring an architect and correcting plan review items. It also ensures ADU designs that maintain residential neighborhood character in adhering to the City’s Community Design Guidelines.
Two sizes of detached ADUs are available – a 745 gross square foot one bedroom which includes a den that may be converted to a second bedroom, and a two bedroom 1,022 gross square foot ADU. Two exterior architectural styles can be chosen from to best match the primary home – “Mission Revival” or “Ranch”. The third pre-designed plan is a garage conversion for an attached or detached garage.
The plan sets are intended to be used as-designed, with limited modifications. Included in all plans sets are Architectural Plans, Structural Plans, and Mechanical Plans which have been pre-approved by the City Planning and Public Works Departments and Santa Barbara County Building & Safety Division. Title 24 Energy Calculations are included in the 745 ft2 and 1,022 ft2 ADU plan sets, but must be done separately for garage conversions. Property specific information must also be completed by each applicant.
These plans will provide significant cost and time savings in the permitting process and be a beautiful addition to Buellton homes. Preview versions of the plans are available in the page links. To request the full usable construction drawings and application documents, please email Planning@CityofBuellton.com.