Chanin Wine Company
Planning Projects
The proposed project consists of the construction of a new commercial building to accommodate the operations of Chanin Wine Company, a small locally-owned and operated winery producing high-end wines. The project is located on the southwest corner of Industrial Way and Highway 246 at 291 Industrial Way.
The proposed development includes: • Agrarian style buildings, with full 1st story and partial 2nd story, 28 feet 8 inches at the highest point • a total of approximately 16,510 SF of building space, including covered loading and utility areas • tasting room and office areas • production and processing area in enclosed building spaces • barrel, bottle and dry goods storage; bottle archive (small basement storage) • parking, internal circulation, open areas and landscaping
The existing site is vacant, undeveloped land zoned Service Commercial (CS). The Service Commercial Zone provides areas for commercial establishments that involve extensive outdoor activities or the sale of large products such as lumber yards and appliance sales, in addition to wholesale service and business facilities with ancillary offices and inside storage areas. The proposed project would be a lower intensity use of those provided for in this Zone. The applicant has made an effort to minimize impacts to the adjacent residential neighbors.
In accordance with the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act and the Environmental Impact Report Guidelines of the City of Buellton (collectively, “CEQA”), the proposed Project is exempt from environmental review, as it meets the criteria for a Class 32 Categorical Exemption (Infill Project). No adverse impacts have been identified with this project through the incorporation of conditions of approval. A Traffic & Circulation Study was completed and concluded that: project trip generation would not result in an adverse impact on the adjacent street system: and site access, internal circulation and vehicle maneuvering are adequate and meet the City’s standards.
The Native Tree Protection Ordinance applies to several large Oak Trees on the property. Ten (10) Coast Live Oak Trees would be preserved. Of the two trees proposed to be removed, one 48"(Diameter at Breast Height) Coast Live Oak was determined by the arborist to be showing signs of decline, and thus poses a potential safety risk due to falling branches. The other tree to be removed is a 24" Coast Live Oak is healthy with a well-developed canopy; however, the proposed development plan and site layout requires this tree to be removed. Replacement trees are provided at a ratio of 8:1, which significantly exceeds the minimum replacement ratio of the Native Tree Ordinance of 3:1.
Important Dates
● February 18, 2021 Conceptual Review The applicant presented a project description to the Planning Commission consisting of two phases: 1) Wine Production & Storage, Art Gallery and Tasting Room, Office Space, Parking, and Loading Area; and 2) Solar Panels, Employee Housing, and an additional Art Gallery.
● November 3, 2022 Preliminary Review The Planning Commission conducted an updated preliminary review of the currently proposed project, and expressed overall favorable comments.
● April 20, 2023 Public Hearing The Planning Commission held a Public Hearing on the project and environmental documents and approved the project with conditions.
Supporting Documents
● Chanin Wine Company Development Plans 03 30 23
● Chanin Wine Company Planning Commission Resolution 04 20 23