 

10 March 2025 
Ms. Andrea Keefer  
City of Buellton  
Planning Department  
107 W. Highway 246 
Buellton, CA  93427  
Via Email: planning@cityofbuellton.com  
 
Subject: Planning Commission Concept Review Cottage Medical Office Building     
  515 McMurray Road, APN: 137-170-046 
 
Andrea,  
Thank you for meeting with our team to discuss the proposed project concept located at 515 McMurray in the City of Buellton. It is our understanding that the project will require a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) and a Development Plan (DP) with review and approval by the City Planning Commission. The Planning Commission will review the project for consistency with the City’s Design Guidelines as part of the entitlement evaluation.  
 
We also understand we can submit the conceptual project plan for a Planning Commission Conceptual review hearing to obtain early feedback on the proposal. The subject application facilitates that request for the February 6th PC hearing. Please review the parcel basics below as well as a narrative that describes the Medical Office Building concept.  
 
Parcel Basics 
Address: 515 McMurray Road  
APN: 137-170-046 
Zoning & General Plan Designations: General Commercial  
Parcel Size: 1.48 acres/64,468 sq. ft.  
 
Proposed Medical Office Building (MOB)  
The existing movie theater would be demolished and a ~31,431 sq. ft. Medical Office Building would be constructed along with associated parking and site hardscape and landscape improvements. A building of this size would require ~94 parking spaces based on the total gross square footage, which is exclusive of unenclosed corridors (23,255 sq. ft.), and calculated at 1 space per 250 sq. ft.  
 
The Medical Office Building would be comprised of ground floor (1st floor) on-grade surface parking lots. The imagined medical office building uses would be a mix of primary care offices and specialty care services as follows:  
 
2nd Floor  
Specialty Care office suites including cardiac rehabilitation uses, Pacific Diagnostics Laboratory uses, Imaging/X-ray space and an Infusion and Medical Oncology use. Waiting rooms, reception areas complete the floor area.  
 
 
3rd Floor  
Primary Care office suites for Primary Care Physicians and associated exam rooms, restrooms, reception areas and staff office spaces.  
 
Please refer to the enclosed conceptual project plans for additional information. Should you have any questions or require additional information, you can reach me at 805-252-4851 or Heidi@merakilanduseconsulting.com.  
 
Sincerely, 
MERAKI LAND USE CONSULTING, LLC.  
 

Heidi Jones, AICP 
Owner & Principal  
 
 
 
 
 

