July 10, 2024 
 
City of Buellton, Planning Department 
 
RE: Highway 246 Commercial Center, APNs 137-190-007, 015, 013, 022, 024, 030, 033 
 
Dear Planning Staff, 
 
On behalf of Central Holding Group, LLC, I am pleased to submit these applications for a Final Development Plan, Conditional Use Permit, Specific Plan Amendment, and Parcel Map and supporting materials to redevelop the subject project area with a 24-key Motel, Coffee Shop with Drive Thru and Market. Below summarized is consistency with the General Plan, Avenue of Flags Specific Plan, and brief zoning consistency analysis. In addition, this submittal includes; 
. Project Plans. Proposed redevelopment plans 

. Tentative Parcel Map. Proposed three lot tentative parcel map 

. Water Demand Determination Report. Estimated water demand for the proposed project 

. Water & Sewer System Analysis. Water and sewer analysis for the proposed project 

. Geotechnical Engineering Report. Soils report for the proposed project 

. Phase 1 Environmental Site Assessment. Phase 1 ESA for the proposed project area 

. Preliminary Hydrology Report. Hydro Report for the proposed project 

. Preliminary Stormwater Control Plan. Stormwater Control Plan for the proposed project 

. Preliminary Title Report. Preliminary title report dated April 24, 2024 

. Biological Resources Assessment Report. Biological report for the proposed project 


  
Purpose of Request 
The purpose of this request is of the Property Owner to seek approval of the aforementioned permits in compliance with City Standards with proposed modifications to redevelop the 2.42 Acre project area with a 24 key Motel, 1,770 square foot Coffee Shop with Drive Thru and 9,000 square foot market. The application involves Assessor Parcel Numbers 137-190-007, 015, 013, 022, 024, 030, 033 with addresses 220 Avenue of Flags, 20, 26, and 60 Highway 246. A three lot Tentative Parcel Map is proposed to consolidate the existing parcels and put each proposed use on their own parcel. 
 
Site Information 
Site Size: APN 137-190-007, 015, 013, 022, 024, 030, 033, 2.42 Acres 
 
Comprehensive Plan Designation: General Commercial, Avenue of Flags Specific Plan 
 
Ordinance and Zoning: District 6 Zaca Corridor, CR General Commercial 
 
Surrounding Use, Zoning: North: CR, Hotel Service Station, Restaurant 
 South: CR, RV Resort 
 East: CR, Vacant, Hotel, Service Station 
 West: CR, Restaurant, Auto Sales 
Services/Systems: Water: City of Buellton 
 Sewer: City of Buellton 
 Fire: Santa Barbara County Fire 
 Police: Santa Barbara County Sheriff 
 Access: Highway 246, Avenue of Flags 
 
Present Use and Development: The subject project site is located on seven parcels south of Highway 246 in-between Avenue of Flags and Highway 101. The parcels are addressed as 220 Avenue of Flags, 20 Highway 246, 26 Highway 246 and 60 Highway 246. The parcels are identified as APNs 137-190-007, 013, 015, 022, 024, 030, 033. Along Highway 246, the site is developed with three vacant buildings and a small parking lot. Along Avenue of Flags, the site is developed with gravel parking lots. Zaca Creek bisects the Highway 246 frontage with a box culvert section of the creek. Zaca Creek opens up approximately 95-feet into the site. Zaca Creek then forms the southerly boundary of the western half of the site. 
 
Project Description 
The existing site improvements outside the potential aquatic resources are proposed to be removed. The County Water Works Easements and General Telephone easements are proposed to be quit claimed. 
 
The project site is proposed to be developed with a 24 key Motel, 1,770 square foot Coffee Shop with Drive Thru and 9,000 square foot market. The motel component of the 
project is proposed to be located on the westerly portion of the Highway 246 frontage. The coffee shop is proposed to be located along the easterly portion of the Highway 246 frontage. The market/deli is proposed to be located at the rear of the easterly portion of the project site. All buildings will be located outside the 50 foot setback from Zaca Creek top of bank 
The project frontage along Highway 246 currently has six driveway approaches. The project proposes to reduce the number of approaches to two. The driveway approach over the Zaca Creek culvert and the easterly approach are proposed to be retained and reconstructed to current Caltrans standards to meet ADA requirements. A single loaded parking aisle is proposed along the project areas easterly property line with a loading zone and shared trash enclosure at the terminus. A double loaded parking aisle is located in-between the Coffee Shop and Market that continues on the other side of Zaca Creek. The Coffee Shop drive thru lane takes access from the aforementioned drive aisle and wraps around the Coffee Shop in-between it and the sidewalk. 36 parking spaces are required between the Coffee Shop and Market uses. 36 parking spaces are proposed on this portion of the project area, east of Zaca Creek. West of Zaca Creek, the drive aisle transitions to a single loaded aisle as it parallels Zaca Creek and exits onto Avenue of Flags with a new driveway approach. Parking west of Zaca Creek is intended for the Motel, which required 25 parking spaces. 29 spaces are provided with some stalls deeper and wider near Avenue of Flags to accommodate smaller class B and C RVs. 
Pedestrian circulation is accommodated with an eight foot wide sidewalk/class 1 trail along Zaca Creek that connects from Avenue of Flags to Highway 246. A secondary circulation network of four to six foot wide sidewalks connects the proposed building to each other, Avenue of Flags and Highway 246. 
The proposed site improvements will have minor impacts/encroachments to potential aquatic resources that include removed of two Oak trees at the top of the existing 
Zaca Creek headwall, encroachment in the dripline of an oak tree, and minor grading for the trail where retaining wall can’t be used due to the sewer easement. 
A Tentative Parcel Map is proposed to consolidate the existing seven parcels into three parcels. Proposed Parcel 1 is located along the western half of the project area and is 1.32 acres. Parcel 1 will include the Motel Use. Proposed Parcel 2 is located at the northeast corner of the project area along Highway 246 and is 0.34 acres. Parcel 2 will include the Coffee Shop. Proposed Parcel 3 is located at the southeast corner of the project area and is 0.76 acres. Parcel 3 will include the market use. Reciprocal access and utility easements are proposed between the proposed Parcels over the drive aisles. Reciprocal parking is proposed between Parcel 2 and 3. Reciprocal trash enclosure easement is proposed between Parcel 2 and 3. A public trail easement is proposed on Parcel 1 for the Zaca Creek trail 
 

Preliminary Site Plan 
The Motel is proposed to have 24-keys with a mix of king suites, king rooms and double rooms grouped in sets of three rooms. The group of three rooms have connected doors, so guests can potentially rent multiple rooms to have a larger suite. The proposed Motel is two stories tall, design in an art-deco architecture with a secondary theme of space due to the procimity of the project site to Vandenberg Space Force Base. The total size of the Motel is approximately 24,490 gross square feet. The height of the building from finished floor is 23’-7” with architectural projections up to 30’-0”. The Motel is raised out of the floodplain, so the northeast corner of the building has a foundation retaining wall with street grade 4’ lower than the finished floor elevation. The rooms are oriented around a central courtyard that will feature a walled in pool area and fire pit lounge area. The Motel has a small management office with housekeeping closet. 
 

Highway 246 Elevation 
The proposed Coffee Shop is designed in a dinner style with iconic pop art elements that include a large coffee cup above the pickup window and coffee pot that vehicles drive thru and is where vehicles order at. The coffee shop is proposed to be 1,770 square feet and the drive thru has a capacity of four cars beyond the order point and two at the order point. The coffee pot has a height of 28’ while the coffee cup has a height of 18.5 feet. The building has a height of 16 feet. In addition to the drive thru, the coffee shop is intended to have indoor seating and exterior seating. An operator is not identified for the Coffee Shop at time of application, so operation hours are unknown, 
but similar coffee shops have operation hours from 4:30am to 10pm. The coffee shop will be in the flood plain and will have dry flood proofing construction. 
 

Coffee Shop Highway 246 Elevation 
 
The proposed Market is designed as an art deco theater with a central marquee facing Highway 246. The primary entrance will be located under the marquee with a secondary entrance located along the west of the building where there will be a large patio between the building and riparian vegetation. The Market is proposed to be approximately 9,000 square feet and have a maximum height of 35 feet. An operator is not identified for the Market at time of application, so operation hours are unknown, but similar markets have operation hours from 7:00am to 11pm. The Market will be in the flood plain and will have dry flood proofing construction. 
 

Market/Deli North Elevation 
  
Development Standard Consistency 
Below is a table with the major development standards with a consistency analysis of the proposed project. 
 
DEVELOPMENT STANDARD 
 CITY REQUIREMENT  
 PROPOSED PROJECT 
 PROJECT CONSISTENCY 
 
Proposed Uses 
 General Commercial, Visitor Serving, Light Industrial, Vehicle Support 
 Motel, Coffee Shop, Market 
 Consistent 
 
Siting of Land Uses 
 Ground Floor: 
. Non-residential first 150’ depth 

. Parking @ rear of Buildings 


 . Motel and Retail 

. Parking is visible to street at limited locations, but proposed to be screened with landscape 


 . Consistent 

. Consistent with interpretation 


 
Building Types Allowed 
 . Mercantile 

. Live-Work/Mixed Use 

. Courtyard 

. Specialty 


 . Motel: Mercantile 

. Coffee Shop: Specialty 

. Market: Mercantile 


 Consistent 
 
Setbacks and Building Placement on Lots 
 . Zero lot line encouraged. 

. Sideyard setback: 25’ but not more than 20% max lot width (433’ x 0.20 = 86.6’) 


 . Front Setback @ Motel: 1’6” to 4’-11”. @ Coffee Shop: 2’-10” to 20.5’ 

. Side Setback @ Motel: 8’-3” to 11’-11”. @ Coffee Shop: 55’-3” to Coffee Pot. 89’9” to building. @ Market: 55’3” 


 Consistent 
 
Allowed Heights 
 Minimum: 16’ 
Maximum 35’ 
 . Market: 17’-0” Average. 35’-0” maximum 


 Consistent 
 


. Coffee Shop: 16’-0” Main Building. 28’-0” Coffee Pot. 

. Motel:23’-7” Average 


 
Minimum Lot Area 
 No Minimum 
 . Parcel 1: 1.32 Acres 

. Parcel 2: 0.34 Acres 

. Parcel 3: 0.76 Acres 


 Consistent 
 
Site Coverage 
 No Maximum 
 . Parcel 1: 21.5% 

. Parcel 2: 13.3% 

. Parcel 3: 27.5% 


 Consistent 
 
Landscape/Hardscaping  
 5% Including Setback Areas 
 . Parcel 1: 35.6% (20,486 SF) 

. Parcel 2: 18.8% (2,788 SF) 

. Parcel 3: 27.5% (9,105 SF) 


 Consistent 
 
Parking 
 Motel: 1 per Guestroom + 1 per 5 Employees (25 Required) 
Market: 1 per 300 SF (30 Required) 
Coffee Shop: 1 per 300 SF area for Patrons + 1 per 2 Employees (6 Required) 
 Motel: 29 Spaces 
Coffee Shop & Market: 36 Spaces 
 Consistent 
 
Signage 
 1 SF per foot of street frontage. ½ SF per foot of side street frontage 
Hwy 246: 457’ Frontage = 457’ SF Sign Area 
Ave of Flags: 159’ Frontage = 79.5 SF Sign Area 
 
Total Sign Area Allowed: 536.5 
 Motel:  
-Wall Site: 20 SF 
-Pole Sign: 85 SF, 28’ High 
 
Coffee Shop: 
-Wall Sign 1: 85 SF 
-Wall Sign 2: 85 SF 
-Wall Sign 3: 50 SF 
 
 
 
 Consistent 
 


 
 Market: 
-Wall Sign: 25 SF 
-Marquee Sign: Exempt 
Total Proposed: 350 SF Proposed  
 


 
Affordable Housing Overlay Zone 
APNs 137-190-024 & 033 are identified in Figure 1 of Buellton Zoning Code section 19.16.013.E. as Map Number 7. Per code section 19.16.013.C.2, Commercial properties with frontage on Avenue of Flags or Highway 246 are given a commercial priority over residential. The minimum required density is based on the Net Buildable Area exclusive of the portion of property devoted to supporting commercial uses. The entire parcel areas are being used for commercial uses, making the Net Buildable Area for affordable housing 0 and the minimum required density 0. 
 
Specific Plan Amendment 
We are requesting a Specific Plan Amendment to allow “Drive-Through Sales” proposed as part of the Coffee Shop use. In addition, we are requesting an Amendment to allow vehicle parking and circulation within the first 150’ of frontage along Highway 246, primarily for the drive thru aisle proposed between the Coffee Shop and Highway 246. 
 
The applicant proposes the two Amendments be made only to Specific Plan District 6 and be specific to Highway 246 frontages only. The Highway 246 frontage is unique compared to the Avenue of Flags frontage in that it experiences a greater volume of commuter traffic from neighboring valley communities and travelers. For business along this frontage to be economically competitive within the community, specifically the commercial hub east of US 101, vehicle oriented amenities such as drive through sales are needed.  
Avenue of Flags has been designed as a pedestrian friendly, walkable street with ample street parking, vegetation, and intrinsically better atmosphere for pedestrians. Alternatively, Highway 246 is a vehicle oriented street with its greater number of travel lanes, traffic volume, and limited pedestrian amenities. Therefore, the applicant believes drive through sales are an appropriate use along Highway 246 and does not negatively affect the vision of the Specific Plan Area. Through implementation of other Specific Plan development standards, developments with drive through sales can provided a good transition to the downtown core of Avenue of Flags through introduction of the art deco architecture and by pulling the motoring public west of US 101. 
 
General Plan Consistency 
Below is brief list of General Plan polices most applicable to the proposed project along with how it is consistent with them 
 
L-3 Encourage locally serving businesses such as grocery stores, pharmacies, hardware stores, banks, day care, dry cleaning, and post offices, as well as schools, parks and social centers to locate within easy walking distance (generally ½ mile) of residences. Similarly, new residential neighborhoods should remain within easy walking and bicycling distance from the City center. 
. The Proposed Project includes a market that is within ½ mile to residential uses, specifically the Rancho de Maria neighborhood. The project is also adjacent to the Flying Flags RV Resort and provides direct pedestrian connection between the two sites to facilitate convenient access for their guests to the market and coffee shop 


 
L-9 The entrances to Buellton from the east and west on Highway 246, and from the north and south on the US 101 freeway and Avenue of Flags should be considered important features. New public and private development in these locations should include elements such as signage, landscaping and appropriate architectural detailing that announces that one has arrived in Buellton. Such elements should also be designed to reduce the speed of vehicles entering the City for the safety of pedestrians 
and bicyclists using and crossing arterial roads. Entrance monuments, as described in the Avenue of Flags/Highway 246 Urban Design Plan shall also be encouraged 
. The Proposed Project has designed the Coffee Shop as an iconic entry element to announce arrival into Buellton and establish the art deco theme into the Avenue of Flags downtown.  


 
L-24 New commercial development shall be encouraged in Buellton along Avenue of Flags and Highway 246. In general, new commercial development should provide a wider range of retail shopping opportunities for the community 
. The Proposed Project locates new commercial uses along Highway 246. 


 
L-27 Sidewalk areas in the commercial core along Avenue of Flags and Highway 246 should allow for the free flow and safe of pedestrians 
. The Proposed Project reduces the number of driveway approaches along Highway 246 from six to two. The two proposed will be reconstructed to meet accessibility. Pedestrian points of connection from the street to the Project Area are provided. 


 
L-28 New commercial development should incorporate elements to encourage pedestrian access and to screen parked areas from public view 
. The Proposed Project provides two pedestrian points of access to Avenue of Flags and Highway 246. The pedestrian circulation system is interconnected and separate from the vehicular circulation network. Majority of the parking is screened from public view. Where it is not, landscaping is provided to soften and reduce its visual impact. 


 
L-32 The City should actively promote and pursue development of a unified street scene along the Avenue of Flags as envisioned in the Avenue of Flags/Highway 246 Urban Design Plan (see Avenue of Flags conceptual streetscape master plan on following page). Elements include new district monumentation and signage, thematic paving features, decorative street furnishings (e.g., a clock, benches, banners, flags, light standards, trash receptacles, etc.), embellished pedestrian crosswalks and redevelopment of center medians into park-like settings. 
. The Proposed Project will improve the Highway 246 frontage where driveway approaches are removed to match the existing decorative street scene. The Project will comply with any streetscape development standards.  


 
C-2 Facilities that promote the use of alternate modes of transportation, including bicycle lanes and connections, pedestrian and hiking trails, park-and-ride lots and facilities for public transit shall be incorporated where feasible into new development, and shall be encouraged in existing development. 
. The Proposed Project provides a separate pedestrian network within the project and provides connection to the public street. A pedestrian connection is provided to Flying Flags RV Resort to provide convenient access for their guests to the market 


 
C-4 New development shall be required to dedicate easements and incorporate circulation features promoted in the Avenue of Flags/Highway 246 Urban Design Plan or otherwise contribute toward the cost of completing such features at a later date. These circulation features include: (i) creation of secondary access along the Avenue of Flags between Highway 246 and Damassa Road, interconnecting parking lots at rear of parcels along the easterly side of the Avenue; (ii) improvement of the existing alleyway for parcels along the westerly side of the Avenue; and (iii) development of a pedestrian walkway along Zaca Creek. 
. The Proposed Project includes improvement and easement dedication of the Zaca Creek trail. 


 
C-9 The number of new driveways on Highway 246 should be minimized 
. The Proposed Project reduces the existing number of driveway approaches on Highway 246 by four. 


 
C-15 Parking and storage for recreational vehicles and boats should be provided so as not to compete with or diminish the availability of off-street parking is available for passenger vehicles. In particular, RV and boat parking within the Avenue Revitalization Area should be accommodated as recommended in the Urban Design Plan 
. The Proposed Project provides four spaces for larger vehicles/RVs. 


C-16 The City shall require the provision of adequate off-street parking in conjunction with all new development. Parking shall be located convenient to new development and shall be easily accessible from the street. The City may reduce required off-street parking for projects that employ transit demand management strategies that reduce vehicle trips to the site, where there is on-street angular parking along the Avenue of Flags, and for mixed use shared parking. The adequacy and appropriateness of parking requirements in the Zoning Ordinance shall be periodically evaluated and adjusted, if necessary. 
. The Proposed Project provides adequate parking spaces consistent with the Specific Plan. 


 
C-24 New development should provide sidewalks and pedestrian paths consistent with applicable State, federal and local plans, programs and standards. 
. The Proposed Project provides an interconnected pedestrian networks between the proposed buildings and public streets 


 
C/OS-2 Encourage implementation of Best Management Practices to eliminate/minimize the impacts of urban run-off and improve water quality 
. The Proposed Project incorporates BMPs to minimize impacts to Zaca Creek. 


 
C/OS-3 Encourage the preservation of open space within the City. 
. The Proposed Project has been designed around Zaca Creek and its riparian vegetation with minimal impacts. 


 
C/OS-12 Promote preservation of native trees to maintain the character of the City, preserve the City’s beauty and identity, and protect native habitat 
C/OS-13 Development should be designed to avoid native trees with a trunk diameter at breast height of 8 inches or more. A native tree is defined as a perennial woody plant, such as an oak or sycamore, that is a historical element of a natural California habitat. When considering the approval of activities that result in the removal of mature trees, the following factors shall be considered: a. The size, age, health and species of tree(s) to be removed. b. Whether or not the removal of the tree(s) is necessary for the 
reasonable development and use of the site. c. Whether the tree(s) to be removed is (are) a native or introduced species 
. The Proposed Project has been designed around the native riparian trees along Zaca Creek with only two proposed for removal at the top of the headwall, which the applicant considers reasonable as the site is constrained there and the Specific Plan requires the buildings to be along the street frontage. 


 
E-3 Encourage economic development activities which provide the opportunity for employment of local residents and/or increased municipal revenues.  
. The proposed project will create a range of entry level employment positions and managerial positions. The project will provide the City with TOT and sales tax. 


 
E-7 Encourage the expansion of Buellton's hospitality businesses 
. The proposed project provides a 24-key motel with a unique layout that allow three rooms to be connected for larger suites providing a room type likely not found in the City’s existing hospitality stock. 


 
PR-14 Work to provide a trail and/or linear park along the Santa Ynez River, following the entire length of the Santa Ynez River within the City limits, a trail along portions of the Zaca Creek corridor, a loop trail around the City, and connections to future regional trails 
. The Proposed Project includes improvement and easement dedication of the Zaca Creek trail. 


  
Conclusion  
The proposed project is largely consistent with City policies and will help establish an entry to the Avenue of Flags downtown area. Planning Commission and City Counsel expressed general support for the project during their conceptual reviews of the project. 
 
We appreciate your careful review of the proposed project, and please do not hesitate to contact our offices should you have any questions or require additional materials for this request. 
 
ON Design Architects, LLC  
 

Lonnie Roy       
Project Planner 
Email: lroy@architects-ca.com 
Phone : (805) 896-7896 
 

