Hwy 246 Commercial Center 
Comments re: Conceptual Plans dated 2/15/24 
 
Planning Commission Comments (excerpted from Minutes of 3/21/24 PC meeting) 
 
Two Planning Commission concept reviews were conducted. At the 2nd Conceptual Review meeting on March 21, 2024, the Applicant presented a revised site plan and architectural design style that addressed some of the Commission’s main concerns from the 1st Conceptual Review held on August 3, 2023.  Overall, the project was favorably received by the Commission; their comments from the 2nd Conceptual Review are summarized below.   
 
. Commissioner Sarquilla likes the concept, very eye-catching, especially the coffee shop design.  He stated that this could be an iconic project and recommended  that the Applicant  “go forward” with the project 

. Commissioner Reese questioned the easement issue.  Mr. St. George clarified that progress is being made to clean-up the easements; he added that the top of bank has been identified and will be shown on the formal plans.  Ms. Reese went on to state that she likes the landscape buffer as part of the proposed trail along the creek and appreciates that structures and improvements have been pulled back from the creek bed.  She finds the architecture very charming; likes understated hotel color scheme and decorative elements; agrees with the relocation of the hotel to the street frontage; and likes the market but is concerned with the slight asymmetry of the building design (suggested adding a landscape feature to the back side of the market to break up the asymmetry of the building).  She stated she had concerns with the coffee shop drive-thru but can see that it could be a popular destination for both residents and travelers. 

. Commissioner Contreras questioned the height requirements of the proposed  “Rocket Ship” sign and LED lights.  Contract City Planner Tucker stated that they are within the height limits stated in the Specific Plan and that a lighting plan and photo- metric study would be required for compliance with the City’s dark sky friendly ordinance.  Mr. Contreras stated that the project reminds him of architecture in the Palm Springs area.  He noted concerns with traffic and looks forward to the required traffic study. He applauds the Applicant for moving forward with this project, which he described as an “Americana” piece. 

. Chair Mercado questioned the lot consolidation, asking if any of the businesses on the resulting individual lots were to be sold, what would happen in the event the business started to fail?  Mr. St. George answered that he will stay involved in making sure that the businesses continue to thrive.  Chair Mercado had some concerns about increase in square footage and was informed the additional square footage is incorporated in the hotel feature.  He likes the convertible component with the hotel and encouraged additional landscaping especially in the trail area.   In closing he stated this is a much better project than what was previously presented and that there is nothing in the Valley like it; appreciates the effort put into designing an iconic development for Buellton 


 
City Council & Public Comments (Staff notes from 4/11/24 CC meeting) 
 
City Council concept review was conducted April 11, 2024.  Overall, the Project was favorably received, and Council provided comments and suggestions to the Applicant regarding the design concept.  
 
. Councilmember Lewis – asked about Specific Plan Amendment, and inquired if drive-through would be permitted throughout the Avenue of Flags Specific Plan area.  City Manager responded that Council can limit where the drive-through would be allowed. 

. Councilmember Sanchez – likes the coffee shop and drive-through concept; vehicle queue not necessarily a problem.  Added that it is good to see the Applicant assembling parcels and making an effort at creative design. 

. Vice Mayor Silva – made the following comments: shockingly exciting project, refreshing character, project has “whimsy”, would be an iconic piece for Buellton.  Added that: numbers need to be crunched and studies undertaken; hope it all works out and applicant can move forward with project.     


 
John Dorwin, Buellton Resident, commented on the project’s impacts on Zaca Creek and requested a review by the California Department of Fish and Wildlife to protect the Southern Steelhead Trout.  

