Planning Projects
Conceptual plans have been submitted by Heidi Jones of Meraki Land Use Consulting, LLC on behalf of Cottage Health for a proposed medical office building and facility, located at the former Parks Plaza movie theater site at 515 McMurray Road, Assessor’s Parcel Number 137-170-046. The property is approximately 1.48 acres in size, which slopes from east to west. Currently proposed is a two-story medical office building totaling 31,431 square feet in floor area, with surface-level parking below the first story of the building that follows the natural grade of the site.
The Applicant desires to develop the 1.48 acre site with the following proposed uses:
● Ground floor (1st floor) on-grade surface parking lots
● Mix of primary care offices and specialty care services
● 2nd floor would consist of specialty care office suites; including cardiac rehabilitation uses, Pacific Diagnostic Laboratory uses, Imaging/X-ray space and infusion and medical oncology use. Waiting rooms, reception areas would also be included on the 2nd floor.
● 3rd floor would consist of primary care office suites for primary care physicians and associated exam rooms, restrooms, reception areas and staff office spaces.
● Parking: A total of 121 parking spaces are proposed to be provided; through a combination of surface level parking on the exterior, as well as tucked under the proposed building. The parking requirement is calculated at 1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area, and excludes unenclosed corridor space in the calculation.
● Architecture: The proposed architecture appears to be the Agrarian architectural style. Due to the existing topography of the site, the applicant is proposing to raise the building on a platform to allow for parking to be installed underneath the building.
● Access: Access to the site is proposed to remain as existing, along McMurray Road through the shared access drive with McDonalds. The existing secondary access point at the rear of the site is anticipated to remain open.
● The site is currently developed with one structure that previously housed the movie theater, and landscaping and hardscaping. These improvements would be removed and the site would be redeveloped with the proposed improvements.
These plans have been submitted for a conceptual review only. No permits or entitlments have been approved by the City or formally applied for by the applicant.